README.rst, before:

iGUESS - integrated Geospatial Urban Energy Information & Support System
===============================================================================

Copyright 2010 - 2014 CRP Henri Tudor. All rights reserved. 
Any use of this software constitutes full acceptance of all terms of the 
software's license.

Abstract
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The integrated Geospatial Urban Energy Information & Support System
(iGUESS) is currently being developed as part of an EU project to reduce
CO2 emissions in five European cities. The project is intended to create a
decision support platform providing access to distributed data sources and
distributed analysis and modelling tools through a single web-based interface.
The final goal is to furnish the participating cities with current and
projected space-time energy layers for their urban planning process. iGUESS
provides access to tools that compute local renewable energy potentials and
other spatially bound mitigation action potentials, like the construction of
green roofs or installation of renewable energy technologies. These potential
maps are fed into the non-spatial techno-economic assessment model ETEM to find
the best combination of planning actions subject to a set of objectives (e.g.
emission targets) and constraints (e.g. budget), helping urban planers deciding
where, on what technologies and when to invest. The interoperability between
models and data is guaranteed by the usage of the web service standards
specified by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC). The main iGUESS interface
for decision makers is a web-based GIS, which facilitates the spatial
comparison of different model outputs. The system also provides a component for
impact assessment by comparing the results of different scenarios and making
use of spatial multi-criteria analysis algorithms. Another aspect of iGUESS is
the incorporation of uncertainties associated with input data and modelling
results into the decision support.


Resources
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A peer reviewed article describing iGUESS and its components:
http://www.iemss.org/iemss2012/proceedings/A3_0783_Sousa_et_al.pdf

The MUSIC project website:
http://www.themusicproject.eu/
  

License
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This code is released under the GNU General Public License, version 3, 
please consult the LICENSE file for details.


Requirements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Rails 3.x, with all the gems specifed in Gemfile
* Python 2.7, with the following libraries
	* psycopg2
	* mapscript

* GDAL
* MapScript
* MapServer
* Postgres (multiple processes access the database, so sqlite is not advisable)


Installation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Check out code
* Install web application
* Basic configuration
* Set up cron jobs
* Create password files (harvester_pwd, etc.)


Architecture
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>> Need an overview of the Rails application structure here, especially the data/process registration stuff 

In addition to the web application, there are several Python scripts that play an important role in
the operation of iGUESS.  

*   harvester.py

    The harvester is a script responsible for verifying that information about datasets and processes stored in the data base is up-to-date.  Because of the distributed nature of iGUESS, it is possible that datasets are changed, servers go off-line (and come back online), and the names or descriptions of processes are modified.  

    The harvester systematically visits each of the resources and updates all metadata stored in the system.  If a dataset or process is no longer available, the harvester will mark it as dead in the database, but will not delete it.  "Dead" resources cannot be used by iGUESS, but the harvester will continue to check these "dead" resources, and if one becomes avaialable again, the harvester will mark it as alive and it will be available for use once again.

    The harvester should be scheduled to run periodically via cron.  How often it should be run will depend on the number of resources in the database (more resources mean longer running time, which suggests running the harvester less frequently), and the anticipated liklihood that resources will change over time.

    Note that if a dataset is updated, the new data will be immediately available to modules (as iGUESS only stores pointers to the data), but if metadata changes (including bounding box), those changes will not be reflected in iGUESS until the harvester has been run.  This could potentially cause a problem if datasets are used to denote Areas of Interest for a module.

*   wpsstart.py

    wpsstart.py is responsible for initiating a module run.  When a module is run by clicking the Run button on the web interface, a message is set to the Rails server, which in turn calls wpsstart, passing a list of all the parameters which the WPS server needs to run the module.  The primary task of wpsstart is to assemble these parameters into the format required by WPSClient, which makes the actual call to the WPS server.  Therefore, wpsstart almost entirely consists of rather ugly parameter munging code.

*   wpscheck.py

    When wpscheck is run, it will visit each running module, check its status, and make any necessary updates to the database, including registering any datasets created by the module.  wpscheck should be run from cron, and should be scheduled to run frequently, say once per minute.  The more frequently the process runs, the more responsive the system will feel.

*   deleteDataset.py

    When the user unregisters a dataset, deleteDataset gets called.  deleteDataset's primary job is to ensure that any abandoned datasets on the iGUESS server are deleted.



Support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Details to be provided

Commit message:

Added LIST instance, updated documentation

README.rst, after:

iGUESS - integrated Geospatial Urban Energy Information & Support System
===============================================================================

Copyright 2010 - 2014 CRP Henri Tudor. All rights reserved. 
Any use of this software constitutes full acceptance of all terms of the 
software's license.

Abstract
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The integrated Geospatial Urban Energy Information & Support System
(iGUESS) is currently being developed as part of an EU project to reduce
CO2 emissions in five European cities. The project is intended to create a
decision support platform providing access to distributed data sources and
distributed analysis and modelling tools through a single web-based interface.
The final goal is to furnish the participating cities with current and
projected space-time energy layers for their urban planning process. iGUESS
provides access to tools that compute local renewable energy potentials and
other spatially bound mitigation action potentials, like the construction of
green roofs or installation of renewable energy technologies. These potential
maps are fed into the non-spatial techno-economic assessment model ETEM to find
the best combination of planning actions subject to a set of objectives (e.g.
emission targets) and constraints (e.g. budget), helping urban planers deciding
where, on what technologies and when to invest. The interoperability between
models and data is guaranteed by the usage of the web service standards
specified by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC). The main iGUESS interface
for decision makers is a web-based GIS, which facilitates the spatial
comparison of different model outputs. The system also provides a component for
impact assessment by comparing the results of different scenarios and making
use of spatial multi-criteria analysis algorithms. Another aspect of iGUESS is
the incorporation of uncertainties associated with input data and modelling
results into the decision support.


Resources
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A peer reviewed article describing iGUESS and its components:
http://www.iemss.org/iemss2012/proceedings/A3_0783_Sousa_et_al.pdf

The MUSIC project website:
http://www.themusicproject.eu/
  

License
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This code is released under the GNU General Public License, version 3, 
please consult the LICENSE file for details.


Requirements
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Rails 3.x, with all the gems specifed in Gemfile
* Python 2.7, with the following libraries
	* psycopg2
	* mapscript

* GDAL
* MapScript
* MapServer
* Postgres (multiple processes access the database, so sqlite is not advisable)


Installation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Check out code
* Install web application
* Basic configuration
* Set up cron jobs
* Create password files (harvester_pwd, etc.)


Architecture
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
>>> Need an overview of the Rails application structure here, especially the data/process registration stuff 

In addition to the web application, there are several Python scripts that play an important role in
the operation of iGUESS.  

*   harvester.py

    The harvester is a script responsible for verifying that information about datasets and processes stored in the data base is up-to-date.  Because of the distributed nature of iGUESS, it is possible that datasets are changed, servers go off-line (and come back online), and the names or descriptions of processes are modified.  

    The harvester systematically visits each of the resources and updates all metadata stored in the system.  If a dataset or process is no longer available, the harvester will mark it as dead in the database, but will not delete it.  "Dead" resources cannot be used by iGUESS, but the harvester will continue to check these "dead" resources, and if one becomes avaialable again, the harvester will mark it as alive and it will be available for use once again.

    The harvester should be scheduled to run periodically via cron.  How often it should be run will depend on the number of resources in the database (more resources mean longer running time, which suggests running the harvester less frequently), and the anticipated liklihood that resources will change over time.

    Note that if a dataset is updated, the new data will be immediately available to modules (as iGUESS only stores pointers to the data), but if metadata changes (including bounding box), those changes will not be reflected in iGUESS until the harvester has been run.  This could potentially cause a problem if datasets are used to denote Areas of Interest for a module.

*   wpsstart.py

    wpsstart.py is responsible for initiating a module run.  When a module is run by clicking the Run button on the web interface, a message is set to the Rails server, which in turn calls wpsstart, passing a list of all the parameters which the WPS server needs to run the module.  The primary task of wpsstart is to assemble these parameters into the format required by WPSClient, which makes the actual call to the WPS server.  Therefore, wpsstart almost entirely consists of rather ugly parameter munging code.

*   wpscheck.py

    When wpscheck is run, it will visit each running module, check its status, and make any necessary updates to the database, including registering any datasets created by the module.  wpscheck should be run from cron, and should be scheduled to run frequently, say once per minute.  The more frequently the process runs, the more responsive the system will feel.

*   deleteDataset.py

    When the user unregisters a dataset, deleteDataset gets called.  deleteDataset's primary job is to ensure that any abandoned datasets on the iGUESS server are deleted.


Adding a new instance to an existing iGUESS installation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1   Create a new record in site_details that contains information about the new instance.  Note the id number that the database creates for the new record.

2   Add a record to the sites table, which maps in incoming URL with a title to be displayed and the site_details_id for the record created in the previous step.  Note that if you have multiple incoming URLs for the instance, you will need to create one record for each.

3   Create a new stylesheet in the public/site_styles folder, using the name specified in the site_details table.  The easiest way is to copy an existing stylesheet for another instance.

    You can customize this stylesheet as needed, and the styles will only apply to the relevant instance.  If you need to modifiy a style that is not included in the stylesheet, find where that is defined, and move it to the new stylesheet.  Also be sure to copy that style to any other custom stylesheets referred to in the site_details table.

4   The body_html_file and footer_html_file contain HTML specific to each instance.  body_html_file is used for the main body on the starting page, and footer_html_file is appended to the bottom of every page except the mapping screen.  Those files are currently located in app/views/home folder, and the actual file should have the same name as specified in the database, but with a "_" prepended to the name.  The "_" requirement is due to the way Rails loads included content files.  If either file contains any Rails directives, it should have a .erb extension.



Support
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Details to be provided
